# Book-ish, an online bookstore for everyone

## Contents
* [Introduction](#introduction)
* [Technologies](#technologies)
* [Setup](#setup)
* [Gif example of funtion](#gif)
* [Contact](#contact)

## Introduction
Book-ish was created as new world wide bookstore, everyone with an ordinary credit card can purchase a book and receve it in a few days. We work with a lot of bookstores around the word and we are happy to welcome new ones to join us.
This project was created it as an e-commerce app, it is my 3rd project in GitHub and the first with React. 

## Technologies
Project is created with:
* React version: 17.0.2
* Firebase - Firestore Database
* Node version: v16.13.2
* React - Bootstrap version: 2.2.1 for styles
* CSS for the stylesheet

## Setip 
First step to run this app is to install npm in your local computer:
(download and install Node.js first)

```
$ cd ../book-ish (here you put the name of your root folder)
$ npx create-react-app (here you put your app-name)
$ npm start
```

### Firebase install and enviroment-variables
To make this project work you also have to install firebase in your app local folder:

```
$ cd ../book-ish (here you put the name of your root folder)
$ npm install firebase
```
(example using GIT-BASH console)

#### Enviroment variables
You have to configure the enviroment variables that firebase provides you
in ../book-ish/src/services/Firebase/firebase.js or wherever you have 
that file in your project route:
* apiKey
* authDomain
* projectId
* storageBucket
* messagingSenderId
* appId
* measurementId

#### Firebase database and product format
Now, being in firestore firebase database you´ll need three collections:
**_categories_**, named after the products you sell, in the example the documents
inside this collection are **_escolar_**, **_novela_** and **_terror_**. These categories will render in the NavBar component, where it lays the firebase call. You can add more categories this are created it for example for practical purposes.

The following collection is **_products_**, where you can add as documents the products
you want to sell. In the example of this app there are two books for each category.
The product format will require seven key-value pairs: **_author_**: (name of the book´s author), **_category_**: (escolar, novela or terror), **_description_**: (summary of the book), **_image_**: (url link), **_name_**: (title of the book), **_price_**: (number) and **_stock_**: (number).

The third and last collection is **_orders_**. There will lay the buy orders from the clients. You don't necessarily have to create it, as it will create itself when someone confirm an order in the cart.

### React routes and fundamental components
This application uses React Router (react-router-dom) for the navigability sake, avoiding the page to refresh everytime it changes its route.

#### NavBar
Here are displayed the three (or more) categories of the products (Escolar, Novela, Terror). NavBar is viewable across all the application, being outside the app routes. Inside this component lays a firebase call, who brings and render the product categories in the NavBar. Once clicked, the titles will filter these products by categories. This is done using **useParam** React hook which takes the /category/:category param. 

#### ItemListContainer and ItemDetailsContainer
ItemListContainer routes: ``/`` (it is displayed in the home page) and ``/category/:category``, filtering products.
ItemDetailContainer route: ``/detail/:productId`` (filtering by using product id with useParam hook).
In this components the products are displayed. ItemDetailContainer products give the user the chance to view the product details as its name say, and to add the desired quantity of the product to the cart. They are stored in a state "cart", which is made by using **useState** and **useContext** (with the purpose of making a "global state") React hooks.

#### Cart, CartWidget and ContactForm
Cart route: ``/cart``
The cart component will display the added products if there is at least one, with the per unity prices and total amount to pay. Otherwise it will display a message and a link to take you back to the catalogue of products (ItemListContainer). Inside the cart you will also have the option to confirm the order, which will be stored in a state and in its same name Firebase collection, with the data of the products, the total amount to pay and the purchaser information. Before confirming the order it is required for the client to submit his contact information in a form, the cart interface then rendering the order id (auto generated by Firebase).
CartWidget: this component receives the cart item quantity and displays it in the NavBar. When the cart has no products added, CartWidget will dissapear.
ContactForm: this is the above mentioned form. It is built with a toggable functionality, made with useImperativeHandle and useRef React hooks. The information that the purchaser completes here will lay in the order state as well.

#### CartContext
Using React context, this file includes varied functions: check if an item is already in cart, add the item to the cart if there is no one or update its quantity, remove item by id, clear the cart, and calculate total amount to pay and quantity of products inside. Also it will include the cart state. Using context provider that will wrap all the app components, these functions and state are global to its children.

## Gif example of funtion
[Gif example of function](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1qx_rbzmwn63US0uIFBUPPiJrGydWpQ2u/view?usp=sharing)

## Contact
Please contact me with any question you´ll have:
**E-Mail** : rosembergsamanta@gmail.com
**LinkedIn** : Samanta Rosemberg
I´m happy to answer you. 